doc/programming_guide/shapes.rst, before:

Drawing Shapes
==============

.. _guide_shapes:


The :py:mod:`~pyglet.shapes` module is an easy to use option for creating
and manipulating colored shapes, such as rectangles, circles, and
lines. Shapes can be resized, positioned, and rotated where applicable,
and their color and opacity can be changed. All shapes are implemented
using OpenGL primitives, so they can be drawn efficiently with :ref:`guide_batched-rendering`.
In the following examples `Batch` will be ommitted for brevity, but in
general you always want to use Batched rendering for performance.

For drawing more complex shapes, see the :ref:`guide_graphics` module.


Creating a Shape
----------------

Various shapes can be constructed with a specific position, size, and color::

    circle = shapes.Circle(x=100, y=150, radius=100, color=(50, 225, 30))
    square = shapes.Rectangle(x=200, y=200, width=200, height=200, color=(55, 55, 255))

You can also change the color, or set the opacity after creation. The opacity
can be set on a scale of 0-255, for various levels of transparency::

    circle.opacity = 120

The size of Shapes can also be adjusted after creation::

    square.width = 200
    circle.radius = 99


Anchor Points
^^^^^^^^^^^^^

Similar to images in pyglet, the "anchor point" of a Shape can be set.
This relates to the center of the shape on the x and y axis. For Circles,
the default anchor point is the center of the circle. For Rectangles,
it is the bottom left corner. Depending on how you need to position your
Shapes, this can be changed. For Rectangles this is especially useful if
you will rotate it, since Shapes will rotate around the anchor point. In
this example, a Rectangle is created, and the anchor point is then set to
the center::

    rectangle = shapes.Rectangle(x=400, y=400, width=100, height=50)
    rectangle.anchor_x = 50
    rectangle.anchor_y = 25
    # or, set at the same time:
    rectangle.anchor_position = 50, 25

    # The rectangle is then rotated around its anchor point:
    rectangle.rotation = 45

If you plan to create a large number of shapes, you can optionally set the
default anchor points::

    shapes.Rectangle._anchor_x = 100
    shapes.Rectangle._anchor_y = 50

Commit message:

Add more information about other shapes

doc/programming_guide/shapes.rst, after:

Drawing Shapes
==============

.. _guide_shapes:


The :py:mod:`~pyglet.shapes` module is an easy to use option for creating
and manipulating colored shapes, such as rectangles, circles, and lines.
Shapes can be resized, positioned, and rotated where applicable, and their
color and opacity can be changed. All shapes are implemented using OpenGL
primitives, so they can be drawn efficiently with
:ref:`guide_batched-rendering`. In the following examples
:py:class:`~pyglet.graphics.Batch` will be ommitted for brevity, but in
general you always want to use Batched rendering for performance.

For drawing more complex shapes, see the :ref:`guide_graphics` module.


Creating a Shape
----------------

Various shapes can be constructed with a specific position, size, and color::

    circle = shapes.Circle(x=100, y=150, radius=100, color=(50, 225, 30))
    square = shapes.Rectangle(x=200, y=200, width=200, height=200, color=(55, 55, 255))

You can also change the color, or set the opacity after creation. The opacity
can be set on a scale of 0-255, for various levels of transparency::

    circle.opacity = 120

The size of Shapes can also be adjusted after creation::

    square.width = 200
    circle.radius = 99

Aside from circles and squares, other shapes include Arcs, BezierCurves,
Ellipses, Lines, Rectangles, BorderedRectangles, Triangles, Stars, Polygons,
and Sectors.


Anchor Points
^^^^^^^^^^^^^

Similar to images in pyglet, the "anchor point" of a Shape can be set.
This relates to the center of the shape on the x and y axis. For Circles,
the default anchor point is the center of the circle. For Rectangles,
it is the bottom left corner. Depending on how you need to position your
Shapes, this can be changed. For Rectangles this is especially useful if
you will rotate it, since Shapes will rotate around the anchor point. In
this example, a Rectangle is created, and the anchor point is then set to
the center::

    rectangle = shapes.Rectangle(x=400, y=400, width=100, height=50)
    rectangle.anchor_x = 50
    rectangle.anchor_y = 25
    # or, set at the same time:
    rectangle.anchor_position = 50, 25

    # The rectangle is then rotated around its anchor point:
    rectangle.rotation = 45

If you plan to create a large number of shapes, you can optionally set the
default anchor points::

    shapes.Rectangle._anchor_x = 100
    shapes.Rectangle._anchor_y = 50
